Alright! Let's go ahead and take a look
at setting things up to return back XML
here. Just as a recap, I've jumped
back over to the Spring MVC REST
application, that we wrote earlier in the
course. I've created a new branch. I'll be
checking in at the end of this lesson
called XML Maven. You can see that in the
bottom right hand corner of the branch, I
am working on right now.
So, just just to recap, we're going to be
taking just a quick look at and get a
list of customer. So we want to exercise
this get mapping against api/v1/
customers. So, I do have Postman up.
Actually, I need to start Spring Boot
first. So,
let's go ahead and bring up Spring Boot.
She's up and running, which we are up. And
now, we're going to go ahead and send
that request. You can see, I am going to
a specify content type. So, I am
doing. I'll do it.
Be consistent to do that application/xml
there.
So, just go ahead and double-check that.
Now, I did speak a little bit in
the last video there, a Content-type.
That is on a request that's going in. So,
it's the header that you want to be
citing for that, so that's for the server
to understand, and then, Accept as the
what's really going to be driving the
view. So, I did speak there in the last
video, as we're talking about how that
view is being to determine. So, the
content type is how the post is going to
be for posting or doing a PUT on how to
interpret that body of the content type
of that body, and then, Accept is what the
client is going to accept back. So here, I
am saying I want to receive back
application XML, so let's go ahead and
send this. Anyway, we can see that I'm
getting back a 406 not
acceptable error. So, that is coming back
from the server, and we can even see down
at the bottom here, we are getting an
exception saying that we could not find
an acceptable representation. So, that is
Spring saying, 'Hey, they asked for some
type of media type and I didn't have any
way to provide that to the client.' So,
important aspect there. Now, I want to
bring up the Spring documentation real
quick. I got the page right here. Now,
this is out of the Spring Docs for
Spring Boot M2 and there's two
dependencies that they recommend. So, you
can get away with just the Jackson data
format XML. So again, this is going to be
extension the Jackson JSON library, so
there's another library from same guys
that wrote Jackson for JSON. So, there
are several different options here. But,
this is the recommended approach by the
Spring community right now. And then, they
are also recommending Woodstock's. So,
that as an XML parser, or a library that
we can you utilize, and by default,
the JAXB is used in the JDK and
they're saying this is a much faster and
it has some nice handling for us. So, I'm
going to include that as well, and then,
down there, we're getting into XML root
elements. I am not going to handle that
right now. I'll just show you a default
without doing that. We'll get into that in
upcoming video. Now, let's come back over
here and come we're here to Maven POM.
I do have these commented out. So I'm going to
remove those, and and you can see, it moved
by a little quick that Maven did
automatically refresh or IntelliJ
refresh the dependencies. So now, these
are going to be on the class path. But, I
am going to have to restart a Spring
Boot, and just again, I added in these two
dependencies, so that's the only change
that I'm making. But because now, I'm
adding those in, Spring Boot is
automatically going to configure that
XML view for us. So now, when I come over
here and do a send, we can see that I get
my CustomerListDTO. Well, that has
customers and then the various customer
properties, so we have Michael Westen, Sam
Axe again there. Now, if I come here
and say application/json, you can see
that I still get the JSON
representation. So, that is a very
convenient thing to do. When I am
designing a REST API myself, it doesn't
cost a lot to provide the XML capability.
It does allow your client, your customers
to determine - do they want to be working
with JSON? Or, do they want to be working
with XML? There's a lot of opinions on
which is better. I'm not going to fight
that battle. You can see how easy it is
to give your clients an option of which
to utilize or which to consume. So, you're
making your REST API here. I'm very
open to your client. You're being very
convenient for your client to consume
your REST API. So, if they want JSON, they
do that. They do just XML.
I can come in and change the accept, and
we can see that, now, we are getting XML
or JSON being returned back by Spring
MVC.
Okay, I broke the build, so to speak, and I
went ahead and I committed that last one.
You can see, I got the meme up here
of, 'I like to commit without running the
test and I too like to live dangerously',
which is exactly what I did, and you can
see here, I have up. CircleCI caught it
and let me know, and this is why we do
continuous integration testing. I did
break the built in. I am absolutely
guilty of not running my unit test on
when I did this. Let's go ahead and
take a look and see what's happening
here. So, I'm going to get rid of this email
and come back in. Let's go ahead and
run our test.
Show you what's failing. It's a pretty
simple fix.
You can see that we are going to get
some failures here, and we can see that
as the controllers that are failing. So,
let's go ahead and take a look at this.
We can see that we are getting no
value there, and what's happened is, we
only had the one view on there. It
looks like it's getting the wrong one.
We're not specifying what to return. So,
what we need to do is come in here to
MockMvc.
Sakes up.
APPLICATION_JSON. We are going to need
to do that anywhere that we are asking
for it. Let's go ahead. Add that there.
So, those two.
Everything that we've set up is for
JSON and not XML, specifically.
I'm just kind of eyeballing it right
now.
I don't think we need to add a delete.
Get we will. So, let's go ahead. In
case you don't know, this one here with
the little exclamation point, you can see
rerun the failed test. So, let's see if we
got them all.
And I missed one.
Sorry about that.
Make sure that that is in fact passing
now. And that is now all in the green.
I am going to run this. I always like to
just double check here, especially after
I broke the build. Fortunately, it's my
own project, my own repo, so I'm not going to
have to buy anybody beers tonight. Now we
can see that our tests are almost done.
35 of 37.
All our tests have passed. So now, I
check this in the build will be green
again. So, that was my mistake of breaking
the build, but it's a pretty simple change
there. I did not think it would have any
impact, but effectively, what was
happening is Spring MVC was making a
guess and it might have been returning back
XML by default. Could have been returning
back something completely different, but
it didn't look to too deep into the
nature of it. But now, because we have
JSON and XML capabilities, it's
important for our requests to be
specifying the type that it wants. So, I
will commit these into GitHub and you
will have the updated test on the
completed branch for this module of the
course.